# spookynightcomic.github.io
A hand-drawn comic that is hosted on a website. Come, Scroll, Have Fun with us this Halloween!

<b>PROJECT NAME</b><br>
Spooky Night 

<b>PROJECT DESCRIPTION</b>
<p>SPOOKY NIGHT is a web-based comic, designed for halloween, which aims to create a friendly, enjoyable narrative for the purpose of entertainment. It outlines the story of two ghosts who talk about the human world on Halloween (as opposed to us humans thinking abouts ghosts on this occasional day). One of the ghosts - Pie - thinks that she is very smart, hence the other one - Pumpkin - decides to test her by asking a series of silly joke-cum-riddles. Since, it is a prank played by Pumpkin on Pie, the user gets a sense that the questions won't be very legit, rather funny and stupid which are designed as such that one won't be able to guess them easily if they use 'common sense'.</p>
<p>Our aim was to create a very cheerful, friendly website which would keep this theme in mind. As a result, we used very comicy and cartoonish illustrations which hint at the rustyness and unsophistication of the entire idea, giving it a playful vibe. We intend to keep it a light-hearted humour that is not very intense, thus the choice of solid colors (with slight gradients) and block illustrations. The color pallete we used is inspired by the Halloween themed story and hence the widely used colors are orange, white, black and purple. The joke-cum-riddles themselves were not specifically halloween themed as halloween is being celebrated by the ghosts and not humans.</p>
<p>Keeping the user experience in mind, we purposefully did not want to add any buttons or menu options, because we wanted to keep the navigation very simple and easy, just limited to a scroll. As for the user interaction, we wanted the user to engage as much as possible, hence we decided that instead of having the 2 ghosts talk to each other and have riddles and answers displayed as callouts between them, we would have the website ask user the questions so that they also feel as a part of the comic. Guided by this idea, we made the storyline as such that the user feels they are competing with Pie. The ending message "Pie, did not pass, but did YOU?" is deliberately kept as such so that the user knows they are as important to us as the characters in our story. We didn't just want the user to read a comic, but feel like they are 'in' the comic and are a part of it. The interactions of the ghosts to the joke-cum-riddles was put to add more drama and humorous character to the comic.</p>

<b>PROCESS</b>
<p>We started out by putting our ideas for the comic project on the table. We came up with about 4-5 ideas from which we finalized the joke-cum-riddles one as it seemed pretty fun and unique. Not only did we have riddles, but they were all linked to each other. To further bring about a story in our comic, we decided to have 2 ghosts which react to those jokes, so that if anyone does not find them funny, or thinks they are really stupid, they get to laugh at the opposite reactions of the 2 ghosts and relate to it. It also provided an overall narrative to our comic. Once the idea was finalized, we started out by building a wireframe. Our wire frame was not very detailed and just contained a basic layout of our initial thoughts. We started working on the design and layout much later once we had all our illustrations for the comics and were starting to position them.</p>
<p>While the illustrations were in progress, the tech team (consisting of Anas and I) just made a lot of random divs and started playing with those using the skrollr library to understand and get a better idea of how to position and transition the various elements we require on our page. Once we had the technical knowledge and the illustrations (hand-drawn) ready, it was time to put together our webpage. Since it was the 2 of us coding simultaneously, we met many times over Zoom to explain to each other our codes. We even made a cheat-sheet for the scroll lengths of common transitions so that we have consistency and do not need to change it again and again. Integrating our codes and matching the scroll lengths to follow a sequential order was very tedious that took many hours. With all this technical implementation, we gave little attention to the aesthetics (colors and fonts) of the website.</p>
<p>Once we could see our website take shape and the elements transition smoothly, we realised our website was missing something. It was an overall theme that guided the various elements on our webpage. I'm not talking about the storyline - that, we had! - I'm rather talking about a design and color theme which would make our separate joke pages seem like they belong to one comic. That is when we came up with the halloween idea! I always called Pumpkin and Pie ‘ghosts’ due to their partially formed lower halves and then it clicked that we could indeed have those 2 ghosts comment on the human world which would fit perfectly with a reverse halloween idea (of ghosts thinking about humans rather than vice-versa). And that’s how Pumpkin and Pie got their names! Accordingly, we sketched more illustrations / altered a few existing ones and then decided on a common color palette, theme and font, thus giving way to the site as it looks right now. </p>

<p>Take a sneak peak at our intermediate thought processes illustrated : https://github.com/shreya81601/spookynightcomic.github.io/blob/main/Ideas.pdf</p>
   
<b>REFLECTION AND EVALUATION</b>
<p>Our idea definitely changed quite a bit from the initial concept of just having a series of linked joke-cum-riddles to having a story of 2 ghosts commenting on them to making it a halloween themed comic. And honestly, if I was asked about how I felt about the project and what I was expecting from it before today, I wouldn't have much to say. Our group was very disoriented in the beginning. Although everyone did agree on the idea, there was a lack of consensus moving forward. Everyone had their own ideas and it was very hard to integrate all of them into one cohesive story. For a long time, we were displaced and doing our own things. At that moment, I had almost lost hope and wasn't even sure if we would have something concrete to present. But, we all still tried and kept meeting and discussing. At one point, instead of putting my ideas forward (I personally didn't like the halloween idea - I couldn't envision all of it together), I decided taking a step back would be in the best interest of everyone. That time, I found myself coding just on the basis of what others told me and had no picture in mind. This was the most challenging part for me as I am a person who works backwards and does not build something 'on the go'. I always have a clear idea of what I want to achieve in the end and then I work towards it. However, this time, I was relying on the visions of my teammates and was doing as they suggested. Once the project started taking shape, I started realising what they saw and could then turn their vision into my own. I felt that things started falling in place and felt confident about the project.So, in a way, even though the project turned out to be quite different from what I had in mind, it surpassed my expectations.</p>
<p>In the end, I am very happy about how our project finally turned out. Though, if given the choice, I might make a few design decisions differently, but in a group, you have to go with what everyone likes and respect that choice. I am very glad that we succeeded in building a website that all of us liked and was as per the requirements. Having a full functioning story with not only a story line, but a theme and unique characteristic is in itself a big achievement. So, I definitely feel very happy and proud of my team for pulling this off.</p>
<p>Furthermore, it was totally a new experience trying to complete a group project online - finding suitable timings for all of us in different time zones with varied schedules to meet over Zoom, discussing our ideas and providing not only technical help but emotional support aslo remotely as much as we could. You learn from hardships and I did definitely learn a lot through this assignment and from my team members and it was overall a great experience!</p>

<p><b>P.S.</b> Sorry for such a long documentation. This project was very intense and I had a lot to write about / reflect on.</p>
